If you want to breed your snakes, of course,
you're going to have to sex them and sexing
snakes is not the easiest thing. The number
one thing is that you're going to want a professional
do it. You sexing a snake, if you're not use
to it, you can injure your snake. So, definitely
have someone who knows how to do it show you
how to do it. Now, you're going to need some
instruments here, these are sexing probes.
They come in all different sizes for all different
sized snakes. And, what you're going to do,
for this little one, I'm going to use this
smallest probe and I've already dipped it
in some lubricant. I'm just using a little
Vaseline right there. Now, you have to locate
the snake's cloacae. The protective scale
right here is called the anal scale. In some
snakes it's divided, in Hognose Snakes you
can see it's a divided scale. In some snakes,
it's not divided; it just looks like a fingernail
or another ventral scale. What we're going
to do is bring the snake's tail back and go
gently underneath its cloacae, which it's
not going to like.
Be very, very gentle with it. We're going
to put that probe in there. On some snakes
it's easier to do than on others, obviously.
The smaller the snake, it's not easy to do.
Here it goes. You can see that this probe
is going some distance inside the cloacae.
Which means it's going into a Hemipene. There
it goes. So this is how far it's going in.
It's going into an inverted Hemipene, which
means that this is a male. If was going half
that distance it would mean that it's a female.
In male snakes the Hemipenes are inside the
tail and they're inverted. When the snake
uses them to mate, to copulate, it pushes
blood through them and it's kind of the equivalent
of us putting our hand inside a tube sock,
grabbing it, and pulling it out. They have
two Hemipenes, they only use one at a time,
but when the probe goes into a Hemipene, goes
in some distance, you know it's a male. If
it only goes in half the distance, of course,
it's a female because she does not have those
Hemipenes.